file:///C:/Users/DELL/Downloads/E_Commerce_and_pharmacies_in_Trinidad_a.pdf
file:///C:/Users/DELL/Downloads/IJOCAAS-03-03-007-Dec2017.pdf
file:///C:/Users/DELL/Downloads/280.pdf

There are many applications that are similar to the electronic pharmacies system. These applications are working to facilitate the process of getting a medical product through the use of the website, e-pharmacies are divided into several types, including the hospital pharmacies and health institutions or independent electronic pharmacy. For example, there are many similar  applications to the electronic pharmacy in the Arab and the Western world, such as Electronic pharmacy system in Dubai hospitals, Adama pharmacy, Fouda Pharmacy and dowa Kuwait online pharmacy among others. All these websites contain several sections of products, including Hair care, skin care, mother and baby, Medicine Cabinet and many others.Dubai Health Authority (DHA) applied electronic pharmacy system in Hatta Hospital, which aims to speed up the disbursement of medicines for patients by safety process. It facilitates many processes such as patient record, review as well as providing accuracy in the process of therapeutic description.

EC allows the creation of new business models such as e-tailing (online selling).(Turban et al. 2012).

The 20th century thus saw the proliferation of e-pharmacies (selling medication over the internet). Globally, e-pharmacies is a US$ billion industry and is forecasted to be about US$51.75 billion by 2017. The US, Europe, and Canada holds the largest market share with the US representing the largest regional market with nearly 50%, and Europe representing the second largest and fastest growing market, growing at a rate of more than 20% annually. ('Global ePharmacies Market' 2011)

The Canadian e-pharmacy industry has grown to US$1billion in sales with over 100 Canadian e-pharmacies. (Farrell and Fearon 2005)


E-pharmacy is an Australian online pharmacy (with a physical store in Calamvale) that was launched in the year 2000. The pharmacy industry in Australia is worth over AUS$10 billion yearly. E-pharmacy experienced sales increase of over 20% monthly since its inception. In one year, the site sold over AUS$500,000 worth of products. E-pharmacy experienced such extensive and rapid growth within Australia that they planned to open a megastore to sell directly to the public and to serve as a warehouse. (Lane & Koronios 2001)

Online Pharmacies associated with a conventional store, were found to be more successful than virtual pharmacies. (Cottrill 2000; Mahesh & Landry 2013; ‘Global ePharmacies Market’ 2011)

In Europe, EC in healthcare began in 1998, but took off in 2004. Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom allow prescription-only medication to be dispensed by e-pharmacies. (Dudley 2012) 
Alliance Boots, UK, is ahead of the other European pharmacies in its level of online services integrated into its pharmacies especially with its very successful order-online-collectin-store promotions. (Dudley 2012).
In Poland, Doz.pl is said to be the largest online Pharmacy and information site with almost 3 million users placing 100,000 orders monthly in 2011, (Dudley 2012) and since 2004, Internet pharmacies have been licensed to operate in Germany. ‘Pureplay’ pharmacies represent 3.5% of the total pharmacy sales. (Dudley 2012)

The UAE in general is working on the establishment of electronic pharmacies in all the Emirates with medications delivery service to the home. The doctor is also working on a review of medications and the duration of its validity and the quantities consumed largely of products to be provided quickly before stocks last (fouda.com. 2020).

Adama pharmacy located in Saudi Arabia system able to develop a new concept in the area of customer service. In addition, it becomes a pioneer in this domain. So far, everyone
commends the high-class level service provided. It includes several sections such as Mother& Baby, Skin care, Hair care, and other. Each section contains several products. This  pharmacy is characterized by multiple sections and where carrying a large number of products and medicines. The instruction of how to use this website is straightforward by choosing the appropriate language to facilitate the selecting a product or medication. Then, the patient can log in to the site and select the product from the offered list. Or could use the 
search tool to choose the product and determines the quantity and enter the place of delivery, and paid using the credit card number (adama pharmacy 2016).

Fouda Pharmacy is the First Electronic Interactive Pharmacy in Egypt. This website requires the customer registration as the first step to enter a user name and Password. Then you can use this site to choose a medical product that you want to, after that selecting the product is inserted into the customer data and the card number then sets address. This pharmacy provides 
medicines only and it does not provide medical or health products (Skin Care - hair Care - mother and baby products) like most of the e-pharmacies. It has a large number of  categories and each category have huge number of medicines (Dowa Kuwait Online Pharmacy 2016).

Dowa Kuwait Online Pharmacy is an integrated service providing customers with pharmaceutical and healthcare products without the need to go to the pharmacy. It is the first online, high quality pharmaceutical service in the Middle East. It provides valuable online healthcare information in addition to specialized delivery services. In this website, simply place your order online through Dowa and it will have delivered to your doorstep wherever you are. To register in this website, you need an e-mail and password. This web site contains online doctor, Special Offers, multiple Categories, Brands and Products. The process of choosing a product or the medicine similar to what happens in the website of Fouda pharmacy (Dowa Kuwait Online Pharmacy 2016).
Each web-based application has specific features that make it the first over other websites regarding saving time and effort. 


fouda.com. (2013). fouda. Retrieved October 25, 2016, from 
http://www.fouda.com/
[12]. http://adamapharmacy.com/. (2016). adama pharmacy. Retrieved 
October 24, 2016, from http://adamapharmacy.com/en/?sl=ar
[13]. http://dowa.co/. (2016). Dowa Kuwait Online Pharmacy. Retrieved 
October 30, 2016, from http://dowa.co/
[14]. http://dowa.co/t-aboutus.aspx. (2016). About us. Retrieved 
November 17, 2016, from http://dowa.co/t-aboutus.aspx.
[15]. Peersman, G. (2014). Overview: Data Collection and Analysis 
Methods in Impact Evaluation, Methodological Briefs: Impact 
Evaluation 10, UNICEF Office of Research, Florence.


It enables the patient to do several things such as immediate contact with a specific pharmacy to request their medicine securely and fast. Moreover, the orders could deliver to patient locations with fewer fees, which will save efforts, money and time. In addition, patient can use the pharmacy's website to buy any medicine, medical materials, baby and mother care. With Electronic Pharmacy, waiting and standing in queues to receive medicine from the pharmacy it will become thing from the past because the electronic pharmacy will have shortened the time. In addition, it will bring comfortable for patient. It is a user friendly, where aim to help user for accessing the pharmacy easily.



The Global

EC allows the creation of new business models such as e-tailing (online selling).(Turban et al. 2012).

The 20th century thus saw the proliferation of e-pharmacies (selling medication over the internet). Globally, e-pharmacies is a US$ billion industry and is forecasted to be about US$51.75 billion by 2017. The US, Europe, and Canada holds the largest market share with the US representing the largest regional market with nearly 50%, and Europe representing the second largest and fastest growing market, growing at a rate of more than 20% annually. ('Global ePharmacies Market' 2011)

The Canadian e-pharmacy industry has grown to US$1billion in sales with over 100 Canadian e-pharmacies. (Farrell and Fearon 2005)

In Europe

In Europe, EC in healthcare began in 1998, but took off in 2004. Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom allow prescription-only medication to be dispensed by e-pharmacies. (Dudley 2012) 
Alliance Boots, UK, is ahead of the other European pharmacies in its level of online services integrated into its pharmacies especially with its very successful order-online-collectin-store promotions. (Dudley 2012).
In Poland, Doz.pl is said to be the largest online Pharmacy and information site with almost 3 million users placing 100,000 orders monthly in 2011, (Dudley 2012) and since 2004, Internet pharmacies have been licensed to operate in Germany. ‘Pureplay’ pharmacies represent 3.5% of the total pharmacy sales. (Dudley 2012)

In Australia
Online Pharmacies associated with a conventional store, were found to be more successful than virtual pharmacies. (Cottrill 2000; Mahesh & Landry 2013; ‘Global ePharmacies Market’ 2011) The click-and-brick model (has a physical store but also conducts some EC activities) is a variation of the e-tailing model. (Nikov n.d.; Turban et al. 2012)




In the USA.
Click-and-brick organisations often use EC as an additional marketing channel.
(Turban et al. 2012) Multichannel marketing is marketing using different marketing channels (such as a store or website) to reach consumers to make it easy for them to buy in whatever way they prefer. By tracking customer behaviour across channels, firms can improve their understanding of their customer’s decision making.

(Rangaswamy & Van Bruggen 2005) Consumer behaviour has been defined as the behaviour consumers’ display when they search for, select, purchase, use, evaluate and 
dispose of services and products, experiences or ideas that they expect will satisfy their desires and needs.
(Bray 2008; Turban et al. 2012) Getting product information and purchasing products are the two key online consumer behaviours. 
(Pavlou & Fygenson 2006) Online consumers face new constraints, such as the extensive use of IT, the impersonality of the internet, and the uncertainty of the Internet infrastructure so they engage in getting information to reduce the uncertainty of product purchasing; getting information influences purchasing, while intention to purchase triggers intention to get information.
(Pavlou & Fygenson 2006) Desire also affects consumer purchasing, as it is a stronger predictor of intention. (Bray 2008)

Online pharmacies will be successful if they understand consumer behaviour in order to satisfy their customers with their online information system, product cost and availability, and customer service. (Yang, Peterson & Huang 2001)
For example, in 2011 Walgreens was the largest click-and-brick retailer that used multichannel marketing in the US, commanded 19% share of the retail pharmacy market and generated sales of US$72 billion. Walgreens fully understood their consumers’ behavior and decision making process. They estimated multi-channel shoppers to be three times more valuable than single-channel shoppers so they developed and expanded a multi-channel strategy, by heavily investing in EC and mobile technology, to attract that target audience. Thus, their brick-and-mortar locations were accompanied with sophisticated and convenient online options. (Dudley 2012)

A web browser, often referred to simply as a browser, is application software for accessing the World Wide Web. When a user requests a web page from a particular website, the web browser retrieves the necessary content from a web server and then displays the page on the user's device.


Security:
SSL uses all transaction that include customer confidential information. All the database of the customer ,physician and doctor will be encrypted at server site and it will be send encrypted only on the insure data connection

Availability: 
Services will be available 24*7 on internet.
In case of hardware failure or data base corruption a page replacement will be shown.

Portability:
Our website is based on HTML and scripting language depended. The aim is to website application must work on PC, laptop and user friendly devices.

Maintainability:
The commercial database is applied for maintaining the all database also the application developer is updated time to time.

Reliability:
As the data is stored on server site it is available to user and developer to read the information about disease, medicine. Database is available to read 24/7 for the user in convenient manner.
Adaptive Design:
Our websites are designed to offer an optimal mobile experience. Our sites are able to determine the type of device in use and serve content optimized for that device. Specifically, we offer images with optimal file sizes – resulting in faster loading, more usable websites
Platform independence:
The main aim of the site is to provide no platform barriers. This website can be compatible with all devices for mobile , laptops and tab.

